[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
if you notice a thread on your door
handle beware
according to the FBI victims of burglary
suffer about 4.6 billion in property
losses every year with each case
reported costing a homeowner around
$2,000 in damages and home security
provider safe wise warns that one
burglary occurs every 18 seconds in the
u.s. in this video you'll find out about
some new tricks criminals used to break
into your house and what you can do to
prevent yourself from becoming a victim
of home invasion and don't forget we
have tons of helpful videos like this
one on the bright side of life so stay
in the know by hitting that subscribe
button and ringing the notification bell
to turn on notifications that way you
won't miss any of our daily updates
okay back to burglaries what do you
imagine when you hear the word burglar
if it's a smart and cunning person with
experience and premeditation stealth and
advanced planning you're right on of
course they're not all crafty geniuses
plenty of thieves aren't exactly the
sharpest tool in the shed
however make no mistake that there are
those who would be called masters at
what they do that's why if you think a
deadbolt lock and thick shrubs will stop
a home intruder you might be fooling
yourself considering the fact that 60%
of burglaries happen through forced
entry it's safe to say these people
definitely know how to get into your
home even when it's all locked up
as for 30% of home invasions they
involve an intruder just coming right in
through an unlocked door or window but
here's the most shocking and
spine-tingling statistic 65% of all
burglaries happen between 6:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. exactly when you're at work
but that's not the creepy part before
executing a break-in an experienced
burglar spends days if not weeks casing
the place they study your schedule and
daily routine so that they'll know
exactly when you'll be gone and for how
long they find this information out by
watching you from afar or by using some
other tricks of the trade one of the
most popular things burglars are doing
nowadays is tying a thread on the front
door handle and fixing it to the nearby
wall or door frame this thread is so
thin that a casual onlooker won't even
notice it some criminals even take extra
precaution and use a long strand of hair
by examining the thread burglars can
figure out the pattern of your life it
may reveal to them when you leave for
work
go to the gym head out for a weekend
getaway and of course when you come back
home with this information in hand they
can plan the perfect break-in another
trick they use that works pretty much
the same way is leaving a cookie under
the doormat by checking the cookie
regularly intruders get a good idea on
your whereabouts if it's crush your at
home or have been there recently but if
the cookie is still intact
you are probably away on a trip
the same goes we're sticking a match
into a crevice of your door if it's
fallen or disappeared you've opened your
door but if the match is still there you
haven't been home and that's a green
light for the bad guys so now that you
know about some of the tricks offenders
have up their sleeves remember to always
check the area around your front door
paying particular attention to the
places mentioned so far but what else
can you do to protect yourself from a
break-in well being aware of the facts
is a good place to start over 2 million
home invasions are reported in the US
every year but don't forget that some
people don't go to the police this means
that the number of burglaries is
probably even higher homes that don't
have any security system are 300 percent
more likely to be invaded at the same
time only 17 percent of American homes
actually have some kind of security
system installed one out of three
assaults happen as a result of a
break-in this means that you should care
for not only your belongings but your
life as well
85% of all burglaries are committed by
inexperienced or amateur crooks no
that's not for the better since these
types are more desperate and bold which
makes them even more dangerous due to
the lack of physical evidence and
witnesses police managed to clear no
more than 13 percent of reported
burglaries the master bedroom is the
first place a criminal will target and
in most cases they'll hit the jackpot
statistically people keep their cash
jewelry and collectibles in this room
[Music]
what can make you an easy target
on the bright side of all of this some
burglars eventually get caught and a few
of them even decide to cooperate with
the police they provide useful insight
on why thieves choose certain houses
over others basically here's what they
say makes you an easy target
first and foremost you leave your doors
or windows unlocked locking your house
up seems like a no-brainer here yet so
many people don't do it they may be
lulled into a false sense of security by
their tall fence or quiet neighborhood
or perhaps they think I'm just making a
quick run to the corner store what could
possibly happen in five minutes believe
it or not this is more than enough time
for a skilled burglar to get in grab
your valuables and make their getaway
your house is empty during the day
there's a common misconception that
burglaries happen at night but that's
when most people are at home this
increases a burglars risk of getting
caught therefore it's much safer for
them to commit their crimes during the
day when everybody's at work or school
your backyard is easily accessible this
makes it incredibly convenient for a
thief to enter your house since chances
are that nobody will notice them enter
you have an air conditioner in your
window burglars can simply kick the AC
in and climb into the house even if
intruders find nothing valuable inside
your home they'll take your AC for scrap
metal
you love showing off your achievements
if you constantly share pictures and
posts on social media about your
expensive things or exotic holidays
don't be surprised if one day you find
some valuables missing from your home
how can you protect your property it
goes without saying that there are
certain things you can do to make a
burglary difficult for criminals some
can even scare them off for good
nothing beats a home security system and
surveillance if a criminal notice is an
alarm in an operating camera they'll
most likely cross your home off the list
of potential targets thieves don't like
the risk of being recognized
surprisingly just a beware of dog sign
can prevent burglary it's even better if
you have an actual dog though
that's all fence and thick shrubbery
that provide your home with some privacy
can work against you sure your neighbors
can't see what you're up to in your
backyard but they also won't be able to
notice if some dishonest citizen invites
themselves into your house while you're
away consider opening up the area around
your home so that it doesn't seem so
isolated are you one of those people who
keep their wallet and car keys in a bowl
near the front door yes it's really
convenient to have everything right
there as you're heading out but if a
burglar breaks into your house during
the night
nothing will be easier for them than to
grab your valuables and quietly sneak
away the best place to keep your car
keys and wallet at night is near your
bed do you know any other tips on how to
protect your property from an invasion
tell us in the comments below if you
found this video helpful then give it a
like and share it with your friends
remember to subscribe to our channel
where you'll see that
you